You may have noticed in my explanations of cash and workspace that
Circle CI only gives us the ability to save and share files and folders.
But what about just bits of information?
If you use Circle CI's built-in options you'll
have to write a bit of information to a file,
cache or persist the file,
retrieve the file on the other job,
and then parse the information back into a variable.
There are a couple of options that might be interesting
if you find that built-in process cumbersome.
That is to use a secret keeper which is
a third-party service that will receive and provide your secret on command.
Two great options are HashiCorp's Vault which is a web service and a command line tool
that work together to give you the ability to save
bits of information securely and then retrieve them later.
Since the service is not dependent on the job or pipeline
your jobs can reliably save and retrieve information at will.
There's also Memstash which is an ultra-lightweight web service that
takes your key value pairs and stores them securely for a short period of time.
Is a great low ceremony way to store
quick values and get them back out no matter which job you're running.
For Memstash just use curl to save and retrieve your information no sign-up necessary.
So let's take a quick look at Memstash.
Memstash has three basic inputs a token,
a key, and a value.
So this token we can generate a new one as we wish.
We can enter a key and I'll say Mickey,
and we'll say Mouse as the value.
So I'll just use the web tool here to try it out,
and I can see down here there's a curl statement that has
put the key as here in the URL and then it's got the value as the data.
So I'm going to test the put.
So I'm just going to put that says the value has been saved.
So I've still got my key up here I'm just going to
test the get and see if I get that value back.
Yeah there it is. So it got the value back.
Now the nice thing about this tool is I can put my key up here and my value,
and it actually generates a nice little curl statement for me. Very convenient.
Then if I want to get the same value out with the key then I could actually
use this get curl right here which will get the value back out.
So we can actually do that in the terminal.
So let's try that copy,
paste, and this is going to put the value.
I'm going to change it though to something else Mickey Mouse2.
So we'll Save that item has been created.
Great. So let's go back over here to Memstash and Copy our curl out.
So our key hasn't changed that changes the value.
So now I should be able to copy that,
go back over here, paste it again,
and we should get our Mouse2 value back.
Let's try it. There it is Mouse2.
So if you know how to use Shell very well you know that any value like this you
can just pipe right into an environment
variable or into a text file or whatever you want to do,
and this is just light years ahead of trying to
save information to a little file and then retrieve the file later and parsing the file.
This is just a very easy,
simple lightweight way to do it.